Sound Studio User Guide
***********************

Copyright (C) 2011, 2012, 2013 Andrew Makousky
All rights reserved.
See the end of this file for license conditions.

Sound Studio is an interactive program designed to help you synthesize
sound effects by building them from harmonics and combining multiple
combinations of non-harmonic sine waves.

The primary motivation of this program was to be able to pair
graphical representations of sound waves with the audible
representation, and in the process, learn various mathematical
properties of sounds.

This document will will focus on obscure details of Sound Studio for
which you would not know without prior information.

Background Information
**********************

Sound Studio's user interface and workflow are designed around the
harmonic waves model of sound.  In this model, sound is a series of
increases and decreases in air pressure, and when those pressure
changes are graphed, they resemble a series of sine waves which are
added together.  When an object by itself vibrates, it can vibrate
with more than one frequency simultaneously.  However, an object can't
just vibrate to any frequency because not all waveforms can fit evenly
in the size of an object.  Therefore, vibrating objects vibrate only
in frequencies that are a multiple of a fundamental frequency, so that
such higher frequencies can fit evenly in the size of the object.

Multiple frequencies which an object is vibrating by are called
harmonics, and the fundamental frequency is also called the first
harmonic.  Therefore, the number by which a harmonic is called is
equal to its multiple of the fundamental frequency.

How To Use
**********

Sound Studio's user interface is divided into two parts: a display
which shows the resulting waveform and a control area.  The display
has a time scale set to be small enough just to display the necessary
unique parts of the resulting waveform.  The control area is devoted
to editing a single grouping of a fundamental frequency and its
harmonics only.  Separate fundamental frequencies must be edited
separately.

The only way to open a file with this program is to pass the file name
on the command line.  On Windows, if you drag and drop a file on to
the shortcut, the operating system will do this for you.

When you save your current file, the file name's extension is not
appended automatically.  The files that this program saves are just
plain text files, so you can add `.txt' to the end of the file name if
you like.  Even though the file data is stored in plain text, the
current file reading mechanism makes very large assumptions that the
data file has no errors and no extra comments.  Be careful if you edit
the file, and don't even try to open non-Sound Studio files.

The button labeled "Multiply Amplitudes" will change the current
maximum displacement (amplitude) to become the value that you type in.
If for some reason the number of points that must be sampled exceeds
1000, you will be asked if you still want to do the calculation.  The
calculation won't run unbearably slow unless the number of points
exceeds 100,000 or so.

Unusual or Missing Features
***************************

You will notice a button labeled "1st Harmonic Drop" which is
disabled.  The reason why it is even on the user interface is due to a
design misconception.  Conceptually, if you can add higher frequencies
to the end of a waveform, you should be able to add lower frequencies
to the beginning of a waveform from inside of an editor program.  The
way this feature would work would be to conceptually delete the
current fundamental frequency and make the second harmonic become the
first harmonic.  However, that would cause some frequencies that were
harmonics to become invalid, so this feature is currently disabled
unless the other understanding of it is implemented: add a lower
frequency for which the fundamental is a harmonic of.  Unfortunately,
that also has a disadvantage: the lower frequency is always half of
the higher frequency.

You may wonder why there are multiple redundant window management
buttons on the editor windows in the user interface.  This is intended
to be a mechanism to insert the new window after the current one.
Right now, you cannot click and drag windows to reorganize them, but
you can change which harmonic the windows are viewing to achieve a
similar task.

The combination of the mantissa editor, exponent editor, and multiple
scroll bars that are used to edit various numbers in the program are
called scientific number editors.  Because their implementation is not
yet complete, they have various hard-coded parameters which are not
yet configurable beyond modifying the source code.

Note that you can remove all harmonics of a given fundamental
frequency.  If you do, you will be unable to add then back using
conventional means.  There are of course other ways to do this that
you should easily be able to think of.

You will notice that when working with complex sounds, the display
window is noticeably deficient.  That is intentional for this version
of Sound Studio, along with the unusual user interface. Improvements
to these deficiencies might be made in a later version.

Goodies and Enhancements
************************

As this program was not originally intended for other people to use,
its feature set may seem quite limited.  However, if that is how you
are thinking about this program, then perhaps you didn't explore
enough of its features, and perhaps you didn't think of how it could
be used in conjunction with other tools such as Audacity.  If you
press the "Export" button, then you can save a Nyquist script that can
be evaluated in Audacity to generate your waveform.  Then you can do
further audio processing in Audacity.  Audacity's website is
<http://audacity.sourceforge.net>.

Hopefully this program will help you experiment, analyze, and discover
various aspects of sound that you probably aren't normally privileged
to access.

License Condtions
*****************

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
